## What is this guide for?  
This documentation is designed to guide developers through the process of creating applications on the Oniro/OpenHarmony platform. Whether you're new to the platform or looking to deepen your knowledge, this guide provides a comprehensive overview of the key concepts and tools you'll need.

Text from (https://github.com/frankplus/oh-app-development-docs/tree/master)


## Key concept and terminology

Text from (https://docs.openharmony.cn/pages/v4.1/en/glossary.md)

**Glossary**

[A](#a)  
- [ABC file](#abc-file)  
- [ArkCompiler](#arkcompiler)  
- [ArkTS](#arkts)  
- [ArkUI](#arkui)  

[B](#b)  
- [BMS](#bms)  

[C](#c)  
- [CES](#ces)  

[D](#d)  
- [DMS](#dms)  

[E](#e)  
- [ExtensionAbility](#extensionability)

[F](#f)  
- [FA](#fa)  
- [FA Model](#fa-model)  

[H](#h)  
- [HAP](#hap)  
- [HCS](#hcs)  
- [HC-GEN](#hc-gen)  
- [HDF](#hdf)  
- [Hypium](#hypium)  

[I](#i)  
- [IDN](#idn)  

[P](#p)  
- [PA](#pa)  

[S](#s)  
- [Service widget](#service-widget)  
- [Stage model](#stage-model)  
- [Super Virtual Device](#super-virtual-device)  
- [SysCap](#syscap)  
- [System type](#system-type)  

[U](#u)
- [UIAbility](#uiability)  

### A
#### ABC file
A file containing source code written in ArkCompiler Bytecode (ABC) format. It is generated by the ArkCompiler toolchain, with a file name extension of .abc. The ABC file is packed into an HAP.  
<br>

#### ArkCompiler  
A component-based, configurable multi-language compilation and running platform built in OpenHarmony. Bolstered by key components such as the compiler, toolchain, and runtime, ArkCompiler is able to compile and run code written in various advanced programming languages on multiple chip platforms. It also enables the OpenHarmony standard system and its applications and services to run on a variety of device types, from phones and PCs, tablets, TVs, automobiles, to smart wearables.  
<br>

#### ArkTS  
Application development language used in OpenHarmony. Based on TypeScript, ArkTS extends capabilities such as declarative UI and status management, helping you develop applications in a simpler and more natural way.
<br>

#### ArkUI  
Native UI framework of OpenHarmony. ArkUI is a simplified, high-performance UI development framework for cross-device application design and development, increasing your productivity when creating application UIs for use across devices. For details, see ArkUI Overview.
<br>

### B
#### BMS  
Bundle Manager Service, a service that manages application bundles.
<br>

### C
#### CES  
Common Event Service, a system service in OpenHarmony to handle operations specific to common events, such as subscription, publishing, and unsubscription
<br>

### D
#### DMS  
Distributed Management Service, a service used for distributed data management.
<br>

### E
#### ExtensionAbility  
Name of a type of components that provide extension capabilities for specific scenarios (such as service widgets and input methods) in the stage model.
<br>

### F
#### FA  
Feature Ability, an ability with a UI to interact with users in the FA model.
<br>

#### FA model  
Application model supported by versions earlier than API version 8. The stage model is recommended for developing OpenHarmony applications.
<br>

### H
#### HAP  
Harmony Ability Package, released with the file name extension .hap. A HAP provides all content of an application, including the code, resources, third-party libraries, and application configuration file.
<br>

#### HCS  
HDF Configuration Source (HCS), providing the Hardware Driver Foundation (HDF) configuration in key-value pairs. HCS removes the dependency between configuration code and driver code, simplifies configuration management.
<br>

#### HC-GEN  
HDF Configuration Generator, a tool for converting a configuration file into a file that can be read by the target software.
<br>

#### HDF  
Hardware Driver Foundation that provides a unified access interface for peripherals and the framework for driver development and management in OpenHarmony.
<br>

#### Hypium  
OpenHarmony automatic test framework, which strives to implement hyper-automatic tests. Hypium is a blend of Hyper Automation and ium, where ium indicates a stable, reliable capability base of the test framework.
<br>

### I
#### IDN  
Intelligent Distributed Networking, a distributed networking unit of OpenHarmony. You can use IDN to obtain the device list and device states and subscribe to the connection state changes of devices on a distributed network.
<br>

### P
#### PA  
Particle Ability, an ability without a UI in the FA model. PAs are invoked to implement FA functionalities. For example, a PA runs in the background to provide the computing capability or acts as a data warehouse to provide the data access capability.
<br>

### S
#### Service widget  
A reusable component that presents important information about a user application and allows users to access the desired service instantly via shortcut gestures.
<br>

#### Stage model  
Application model available from API version 9. It provides two types of application components: UIAbility and ExtensionAbility. It is called a stage model because it provides classes, such as AbilityStage and WindowStage, as the stage of application components and windows.
<br>

#### Super Virtual Device  
A virtual device that integrates multiple physical devices and allows one device to control others and sharing data among devices with distributed communication capabilities.
<br>

#### SysCap  
System capability, a relatively independent feature in OpenHarmony, such as Bluetooth, Wi-Fi, and NFC. A system capability corresponds to multiple APIs, and the definition of each API contains the corresponding SysCap tag.
<br>

#### System type  
Mini system, an operating system for devices with Microcontroller Unit (MCU) processors (such as Arm Cortex-M and 32-bit RISC-V) and memory greater than or equal to 128 KiB. This system provides a variety of short-range connection capabilities and peripheral access buses. The mini system applies to smart home products, such as LinkIoT module devices and sensors.
Small system, an operating system for devices with application processors (such as Arm Cortex-A) and memory greater than or equal to 1 MiB. This system provides higher security capabilities, a standard graphics framework, and video encoding and decoding capabilities. The small system applies to smart home products, such as IP cameras, peephole cameras, and routers, as well as smart travel products such as event data recorders (EDRs).
Standard system, an operating system for devices with application processors (such as Arm Cortex-A) and memory greater than or equal to 128 MiB. This system provides a complete application framework supporting enhanced interaction, 3D GPU, hardware composer, diverse components, and rich animations. The standard system applies to high-end refrigerator displays.
<br>

### U
#### UIAbility  
Name of a type of components in the stage model used to provide UI capabilities to interact with users.